How they went to the Mountains to eat Nuts
THE nuts are quite ripe now, said Chanticleer to his wife Partlet, suppose we go together to the mountains, and eat as many as we can, before the squirrel takes them all away.
 With all my heart, said Partlet, let us go and make a holiday of it together.
 So they went to the mountains; and as it was a lovely day they stayed there till the evening.
 Now, whether it was that they had eaten so many nuts that they could not walk, or whether they were lazy and would not, I do not know : however, they took it into their heads that it did not become them to go home on foot.
 So Chanticleer began to build a little carriage of nut-shells: and when it was finished, Partlet jumped into it and sat down, and bid Chanticleer harness himself to it and draw her home.
 That's a good joke!
 said Chanticleer; no, that will never do; I had rather by half walk home; I'll sit on the box and be coachman, if you like, but I'll not draw.
 While this was passing, a duck came quacking up, and cried out, You thieving vagabonds, what business have you in my grounds; I'll give it you well for your insolence!
 and upon that she fell upon Chanticleer most lustily.
 But Chanticleer was no coward, and returned the duck's blows with his sharp spurs so.
 fiercely, that she soon began to cry out for mercy; which was only granted her upon condition that she would draw the carriage borne for them.
 This she agreed to do; and Chanticleer got upon the box, and drove, crying, Now, duck, get on as fast as you can.
 And away they went at a pretty good pace.
After they had travelled along a little way, they met a needle and a pin walking together along the road: and the needle cried out, Stop! stop!
 and said it was so dark that they could hardly find their way, and such dirty walking they could not get on at all: he told them that he and his friend, the pin, had been at a public house a few miles off, and had sat drinking till they had forgotten how late it was; he begged therefore that the travellers would be so kind as to give them a lift in their carriage.
 Chanticleer, observing that they were but thin fellows, and not likely to take up much room, told them they might ride, but made them promise not to dirty the wheels of the carriage in getting in, nor to tread on Partlet's toes.
Late at night they arrived at an inn; and as it was bad traveling in the dark, and the duck seemed much tired, and waddled about a good deal from one side to the other, they made up their minds to fix their quarters there: but the landlord at first was unwilling, and said his house was full, thinking they might not be very respectable company : however, they spoke civilly to him, and gave him the egg which Partlet had laid by the way, and said they would give him the duck, who was in the habit of laying one every day: so at last he let them come in, and they bespoke a handsome supper, and spent the evening very jollily.
Early in the morning, before it was quite light, and when no body was stirring in the inn, Chanticleer awakened his wife, and, fetching the egg, they peeked a hole in it, ate it up, and threw the shells into the fire-place: they then went to the pin and needle, who were fast asleep, and, seizing them by their heads, stuck one into the landlord's easy chair, and the other into his handkerchief; and having done this, they crept away as softly as possible.
 However, the duck, who slept in the open air in the yard, heard them coming, and jumping into the brook which ran close by the inn, soon swam out of their reach.
An hour or two afterwards the landlord got up, and took his handkerchief to wipe his face, but the pin ran into him and pricked him: then be walked into the kitchen to light his pipe at the fire, but when be stirred it up the egg-shells flew into his eyes, and almost blinded him.
 Bless me! said he, all the world seems to have a design against my head this morning: and so saying, he threw himself sulkily into his easy chair; but, oh dear! the needle ran into him; and this time the pain was not in his head.
 He now flew into a very great passion, and, suspecting the company who had come in the night before, he went to look after them, but they were all off; so he swore that he never again would take in such a troop of vagabonds, who ate a great deal, paid no reckoning, and gave him nothing for his trouble but their apish tricks.
 How Chanticleer and Partlet went to visit Mr Korbes
Another day, Chanticleer and Partlet wished to ride out together; so Chanticleer built a handsome carriage with four red wheels, and harnessed six mice to it; and then be and Partlet got into the carriage, and away they drove.
 Soon afterwards a cat met them, and said, Where are you going?
 And Chanticleer replied,
All on our way
A visit to pay
To Mr Korbes, the fox, to-day.
Then the cat said, Take me with you.
 Chanticleer said,With all my heart: get up behind, and be sure you do not fall off.
Take care of this handsome coach of mine,
Nor dirty my pretty red wheels so fine!
Now, mice be ready,
And, wheels, run steady!
For we are going a visit to pay
To Mr Korbes, the fox, to-day.
Soon after came up a mill-stone, an egg, a duck, and a pin; and Chanticleer gave them all leave to get into the carnage and go with them.
When they arrived at Mr Korbes house, he was not at home; so the mice drew the carriage into the coach-house, Chanticleer and Partlet flew upon a beam, the cat sat down in the fire-place, the duck got into the washing cistern, the pin stuck himself into the bed pillow, the mill-stone laid himself over the house door, and the egg rolled herself up in the towel.
When Mr Korbes came home, he went to the fire-place to make a fire; but the cat threw all the ashes in his eyes : so he ran to the kitchen to wash himself; but there the duck splashed all the water in his face and when be tried to wipe himself, the egg broke to pieces in the towel all over his face and eyes.
 Then be was very angry, and went without his supper to bed; but when he laid his bead on the pillow; the pin ran into his cheek: at this he became quite furious, and, jumping up, would have run out of the house; but when he came to the door, the mill-stone fell down on his head, and killed him on the spot.
